---
modified: 2021-03-24T00:00:44-04:00
---

# Meeting: Poinar Lab

- Cool ideas from lab members go here :)
- [[@Emil Karpsinki]] and [[Zachery-Dickson]] say go Bayesian! use Beast, estimate the tree topology alongside ancestral state reconstruction
- Ask Emil about beast2 book
- What are the packages I would want to use for BEAST2?
	- [[spreaD3]]
	- [[mascot]] ([[muller2017StructuredCoalescentIts|Muller et al. 2017]])
- Experiment:
	- Try it on just [[Clade]] [[1.ORI]]
	- #Discrete or #Continuous [[Phylogeography]] ?

# Meeting: [[@Ravneet Sidhu]]
- The following tasks pertain to [[Plague Denmark]]:
	- #⬜/✨ | #2021-03-24 | Danish samples through [[nf-core/eager]], [[Preseq]], and [[MultiQC]].
	- #⬜/🧨 | #2021-03-26 | [[@Ravneet Sidhu]] | Plan #pPCP1 resequencing.
	- #⬜/🧨 | #2021-03-26 |  Plan #Chromosome sequencing.
	- #⬜/🧨 | #2021-03-26 | Subsample fastq script.
	- #⬜/🧨 | #2021-03-26 | [[MultiQC]] Notes (example, how)
	- #⬜/🧨 | #2021-03-26 | [[snp-dists]] Notes (how, why)
	
# General

- I did a little bit more #Obsidian research today. I watched [[Bryan-Jenks]]' [v0.10.5 review](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hUCMGw8uMRg&ab_channel=BryanJenks). Here I discovered the language [[Mermaid|Mermaid]] to make flow charts.
- #⬜/🚂 | Create methodology flowchart using [[Mermaid]].

- I'm playing with the ```query``` code block. I'd like to use it to link tasks from scratch in my [[Daily|Daily Notes Template]]

- I'm watching a [[Brian Jenks]] video and just learned about [[gruvbox color palette]]. I should try it out for some of my pixelart. But also download the obsidian theme.

- I also watched [[Brian Jenks]] video about integrating Zotero and Obsidian. I think it's worth a try. I'll need zotfile and the endnotes plugin.

- I'm pretty overwhelmed with my Zotero library organization. Currently I am enjoying the flat style obsidian. Maybe I could put everything into an "Archive folder" and then create the following:
  - Inbox
  - Reading
  - ... I don't remember the rest, must rewatch the video.

- Tomorrow I should read what I want to, not what I should. Perhaps I'll try this with either a BEAST tutorial, or some docs for nf-core/eager or preset.

- I like how his graph view has his daily notes as a giant chain. I should add previous and next tags to the daily note. Maybe I could add this as a template. But there is the problem where there will be empty links for notes that don't exist. But I guess that's why there is the filter for existing slider.

- I like his emoji tag system. Specifically the 4 phases of note development. But that's purely an aesthetic draw, I'm not sure functionally what it offers. The next second in the video literally explained this :joy:. So one application would be to filter by tag::pencil: in the graph view. This will let me see all the notes on "inputs" I've made in various working stages. I could see what notes are poorly developed and could use links. This is where the cultivating ideas part comes in.

- For future reference, that tag is called "memo".

- I realized that the gitjournal app does not display the filename in display. Only the first line I think.

- What's the value in having [[Separate daily notes and scratch notes]]? Scratch notes are a place to write raw unfiltered thoughts. It's a "capture" system, with little regards to organization. I use the Daily Notes for task management, like the Daily Planner to structurey day and make sure I'm not working on what is important not roaming off in fun tangents. I also have the query blocks that search for priority tasks that are due that day.

- I still can't remember what fleet notes are! I should rewatch Brian Jenks Obsidian workflow video. I think the pinned comment had the TOC which had the note hierarchy? Looking at that might help me understand the relationship between different kind of notes, specifically scratch and daily. As I wrote that, it occurred to me something that would be useful. Perhaps the daily notes are a place for me to summarize the most important thinking of the day? I'm worried this will disrupt the atomic nature of ideas though. Also Brian Jenks daily notes didn't have any links... curious!

- I like how he talks about "input", that's probably more broadly applicable than having my "literature" folder.

- What is the difference between the global graph and the local graph? When he opens up the graph pane, it shows a reduced view. Does this just show links and backlinks?

- In 0.11.0, you can right click on a link and rename the note!

- Switching tags to links was driving me crazy. I just realized I could probably use sed to do a full vault replacement. Perhaps I could use grep to search for all the tags?

- I might rename my "log" directory to "Journal"

- The swiftread chrome extension seems pretty neat.

- I'd be curious to know more about integrstions betweven Obsidian and Anki. That would be in his spaced repetition file.

- I signed up for the newsletter and custom css. 

- I found the note hieraechy:
  - #:inbox_tray: inputs
  - #:seedling: seedling ideas
  - #:sun_with_face: incubating ideas
  - #:evergreen_tree: evergreen notes

And here is his tag taxonomy. Maybe I want to consider creating an index page with a link to that.

- What is a MOC? @bbaib describes it as a "space" or "salon" where ideas come together to interact. Want to solicit ideas that "support", "extend", "challenge" and "inviting" or "gathering" these notes.