# 2021-04-01 Scratch

I'm interested in the [[PhyD3]] tool and possible hosting it myself. Document is here: <https://phyd3.bits.vib.be/documentation.html>. To get good customization, I'd probably need to convert trees to PhyloXML.

## Email

Focusing questions from [[Hendrik Poinar]]:

1. With the data you’ve compiled into this great database what are the directions it can take in ms form?  
	- Descriptive - that is describe in detail the database what it does, how it operates, what it can and should be used for.  
	- Test of a certain hypothesis - i.e. Does the structure allow for directionality of contagion to be mapped - what are the inherent biases in the data or how does the rate across the tree make it impossible to date important events in the ‘life-history’ of this bug (i.e. polytomy).  
  	- Yp update. Does the data suffice to simply draw attention to a particular feature of the relationships of these new strains that makes for an importnat and interesting update to Yp phylogeny or say virulence (pla +/-)?

## Meeting with [[Hendrik Poinar|Hendrik]]

### Objectives
1. Characterize the genomic dataset (collection and curation).
2. Describe the (big-picture) variance associated with [[Yersinia pestis|Y. pestis]] dating and geographic estimates.
3. Demonstrate the *analytical and interpretive* risks associated with sampling bias:
		A. Sparsely sampled clade (ex. Second Pandemic?) vs.
		B. Densely sampled clade (ex. Caucasus?) 
		- Knockout a region, visualize how temporal/geographic estimates change.
		- Add case records from an un-sampled region, visualize how results change.

## Meeting with [[Sebastian Duchene]], [[@Leo Featherstone]]

- On the same page for objectives
- First tested ultrameric
- Strong support for strict clock with a mean rate ~1E-8
- How long are your chains?
- Strict clock root height (~6000~)
- Relaxed clock has good for mixing for height not rate?
- In the relaxed clock, it wants to be younger
- Can we assume samples with a narrow range of ~50 years to be an average.
- Leo has interests in a simulation study :) 
- Is it worth including in uncertainty in all the dates? 
- Strict clock can handle less uncertainty, 
- Strict clock has a 'relaxed' character in that it's a normal distribution.
- Markov rewards:
- Get samples that MRCA will be big bang
- Birth -Death, idea of giving sampling 'weights' to geographic region.
- Describe the main biases in the dataset, and what can be done.
- [[@Edward Holmes]] like the [[Markov Reward]] plots, possibly because it doesn't show the pathways, just the transition between states. Calculate how often the state in the tree jumps from one place to another.
- arc plot, takes a matrix, number of jumps, popular in demographics

### Full Dataset

- Everything data (no geo or temporal uncertainty)

### Limited Dataset
- 20th century dataset with sampling priors
- Review what samples we can fix the ages.

### 




