---
modified: 2021-03-30T08:30:41-04:00
---

# 2021-03-27 Scratch

Plotly might be a good candidate for drawing maps:
- <https://plotly.com/python/lines-on-maps/>

## [[Plague Phylodynamics and Phylogeography]]

I would like to better understand the [[tension]] and [[dialogue]] in the field of [[Plague|plague]] [[Phylogeography|phylogeography]].

The dangers of [[Sampling Bias]] are particularly relevant for [[Ancient DNA]] analysis. It is important to [[Even Sample|evenly sample]] as opposed to [[Under-represented|undersample]] or [[Over-Represented|oversample]]. 

[[Faria et al. 2018 Genomic Epidemiological Monitoring|Faria et al. 2018]]:
> The authors discuss the analytical and interpretive risks associated with [[Under-represented|undersampling]], particular when [[non-human]] samples are excluded. Given the multi-host [[ecology]] of [[Plague]], there will be strong parallels in these findings. <i>**They caution that [[Phylogenetic|phylogenetic]] data alone is insufficient to test hypotheses such as transmission linkage in this situation**</i>.

[[Kalkauskas et al. 2021 Sampling Bias Model|Kalkauskas et al. 2021]] :
>  The authors demonstrate how [[Sampling Bias|sampling bias]] is severely detrimental to [[Phylogeography|phylogeographic]] models of [[Pathogen|pathogen]] spread. <i>**They show that the inclusion of [[Sequence-Free]] samples significantly alleviates [[Sampling Bias]]</i>**. However, this approach depends on knowing the [[full extent of an organism's spatial distribution]].

These findings are exciting for the field of [[phylogeography]] for two reasons:
>1. Provides a statistical argument for the importance of [[Interdisciplinary]] work, and the dangers of not doing so (in agreement with [[Faria et al. 2018 Genomic Epidemiological Monitoring|Faria et al. 2018]]).  Thus supplying a strong motivation to purse this work.
>1. Provides an explicit methodological framework for the integration of [[Interdisciplinary|interdisciplinary]] datasets, in the form of [[Sequence-Free]] data being added to [[Genome|genomic]] analyses.
	
These findings have some important implications for dialogues in [[Ancient]] [[Plague]] studies. Organized Thematically:
	-  [[Geographic Origin]]: First emergence of [[Yersinia pestis]], location of spillover events in historical [[Pandemic]], [[Persistence]] vs. [[Reintroduction]] over time in an area.
	
When applying these principals to [[Ancient DNA]] work, several obstacles are encountered. Firstly, the [[full extent of an organism's spatial distribution]] is rarely known. [[Ancient DNA|aDNA]] work is actually posed to answer that question, rather than it being comprehensive prior knowledge. 

- I now need to find some [[Ancient DNA]] papers that contribute to this [[dialogue]]. Ideally, [[Yersinia pestis]] papers that are estimating [[Geographic Origin|geographic origin]], [[Spread|spread]], or [[Transmission]]. In terms of [[Geographic Origin]], that would relate to hypotheses on [[Persistence]] vs. [[Reintroduction]].


- [[Geographic Origin]]: [[Guellil et al. 2020 Genomic Historical Synthesis|Guellil et al. (2020)]], [[Bos et al. 2016 Eighteenth Century Yersinia|Bos et al. (2016)]].

### Tension

The central tension is:
- Paper Group #1: <i>"Let's use [[phylogeography]] to discover things about an organism we know little about!"</i>
- Paper Group #2: <i>"Don't use [[phylogeography]] unless your existing knowledge is robust."</i>

Which seems like a barrier to aDNA studies. But in factor, there is quite an abundance or additional information we can use to improve [[Sampling Bias]]:
1. More publicly available [[Genome|genomic]] data.
1. [[Interdisciplinary]] data in the form of historical records.
--> Novel synthesis of Genomic and historical records.

My paper could begin my showing the applicability of this method for the [[Third Pandemic]] of plague, in which substantial records were record by the [[World Health Organization|WHO]] and compiled into a database by [[Xu et al. 2019 Historical Genomic Data|Xu et al. 2019]]. While the [[Third Pandemic]] has been intensively [[Sequencing|sequenced]], significant [[Sampling Bias]] have been described such as the [[Over-Represented|over-sampling]] of [[East Asia]] ([[China]]) by [[Spyrou et al. 2016 Historical Pestis Genomes|Spyrou et al. (2016)]].

---
tags:  
prev: [[2021-03-26 Scratch]]  
next: [[2021-03-28 Scratch]]